# Practical Example

Everything we do on our digital devices, from smartphones to computers, leaves traces. Let’s see how we can use this in the subsequent investigation.

Our cat, Gado, has been kidnapped. The kidnapper has sent us a document with their requests in MS Word Document format. We have converted the document to PDF format and extracted the image from the MS Word file for your convenience.

You can download the attached file to your local machine for inspection [with the following zip file.](../../../_resources/ransom-lettter-2-1645608985174-1719473069554.zip)

&nbsp;

When you create a text file, `TXT`, some metadata gets saved by the operating system, such as file creation date and last modification date. However, much information gets kept within the file’s metadata when you use a more advanced editor, such as MS Word. There are various ways to read the file metadata; you might open them within their official viewer/editor or use a suitable forensic tool. Note that exporting the file to other formats, such as `PDF`, would maintain most of the metadata of the original document, depending on the PDF writer used.

Let’s see what we can learn from the PDF file. We can try to read the metadata using the program `pdfinfo`. Pdfinfo displays various metadata related to a PDF file, such as title, subject, author, creator, and creation date. (if you are using Kali Linux and don’t have `pdfinfo` installed, you can install it using `sudo apt install poppler-utils`.) Consider the following example of using `pdfinfo DOCUMENT.pdf` :

```shell
root@BoB~# pdfinfo DOCUMENT.pdf 
Creator:        Microsoft® Word for Office 365
Producer:       Microsoft® Word for Office 365
CreationDate:   Wed Oct 10 21:47:53 2018 EEST
ModDate:        Wed Oct 10 21:47:53 2018 EEST
Tagged:         yes
UserProperties: no
Suspects:       no
Form:           none
JavaScript:     no
Pages:          20
Encrypted:      no
Page size:      595.32 x 841.92 pts (A4)
Page rot:       0
File size:      560362 bytes
Optimized:      no
PDF version:    1.7
```

The PDF metadata clearly shows that it was created using MS Word for Office 365 on October 10, 2018.

## Photo <span style="color: inherit;">EXIF</span> Data

<span style="color: inherit;">EXIF</span> stands for Exchangeable Image File Format; it is a standard for saving metadata to image files. Whenever you take a photo with your smartphone or with your digital camera, plenty of information gets embedded in the image. The following are examples of metadata that can be found in the original digital images:

- Camera model / Smartphone model
- Date and time of image capture
- Photo settings such as focal length, aperture, shutter speed, and ISO settings

Because smartphones are equipped with a GPS sensor, finding GPS coordinates embedded in the image is highly probable. The GPS coordinates, i.e., latitude and longitude, would generally show the place where the photo was taken.

There are many online and offline tools to read the <span style="color: inherit;">EXIF</span> data from images. One command-line tool is `exiftool`. ExifTool is used to read and write metadata in various file types, such as JPEG images. (if you are using Kali Linux and don’t have `exiftool` installed, you can install it using `sudo apt install libimage-exiftool-perl`). In the following terminal window, we executed `exiftool IMAGE.jpg` to read all the <span style="color: inherit;">EXIF</span> data embedded in this image.

```shell
root@BoB~# exiftool IMAGE.jpg
[...]
GPS Position : 51 deg 31' 4.00" N, 0 deg 5' 48.30" W
[...]
```

If you take the above coordinates and search one of the online maps, you will learn more about this location. Searching [Microsoft Bing Maps](https://www.bing.com/maps) or [Google Maps](https://www.google.com/maps) for `51 deg 30' 51.90" N, 0 deg 5' 38.73" W` reveals the street where the photo was taken. Note that for the search to work, we had to replace `deg` with `°` and remove the extra white space. In other words, we typed `51°30'51.9"N 0°05'38.7"W` in the map search bar.

&nbsp;

# Exercise

### Question 1

Using `pdfinfo`, find out the author of the attached PDF file, `ransom-letter.pdf`.

answer: Ann Gree Shepherd

```shell
root@BoB~# pdfinfo ransom-letter.pdf 
Title:          Pay NOW
Subject:        We Have Gato
Author:         Ann Gree Shepherd
Creator:        Microsoft® Word 2016
Producer:       Microsoft® Word 2016
CreationDate:   Wed Feb 23 09:10:36 2022 GMT
ModDate:        Wed Feb 23 09:10:36 2022 GMT
Tagged:         yes
UserProperties: no
Suspects:       no
Form:           none
JavaScript:     no
Pages:          1
Encrypted:      no
Page size:      595.44 x 842.04 pts (A4)
Page rot:       0
File size:      71371 bytes
Optimized:      no
PDF version:    1.7

root@BoB~#
```

&nbsp;

### Question 2

Using `exiftool` or any similar tool, try to find where the kidnappers took the image they attached to their document. What is the name of the street?

answer: GPS: 51º30'51.90"N, 0º5'38.73"W    Milk Street

```shell
root@BoB~# exiftool letter-image.jpg | grep GPS
GPS Latitude Ref                : North
GPS Longitude Ref               : West
GPS Time Stamp                  : 13:37:33
GPS Latitude                    : 51 deg 30' 51.90" N
GPS Longitude                   : 0 deg 5' 38.73" W
GPS Position                    : 51 deg 30' 51.90" N, 0 deg 5' 38.73" W

root@BoB~#
```

&nbsp;

### Question 3

What is the model name of the camera used to take this photo?

answer: Canon EOS R6

```shell
root@BoB~# exiftool letter-image.jpg | grep Model
Camera Model Name               : Canon EOS R6
Lens Model                      : EF50mm f/1.8 STM
Device Model                    : 
Device Model Desc               : sRGB

root@BoB~#

```