# <span style="color: inherit;">Introduction</span>

<span style="color: inherit;">Hydra</span> is a brute force online password cracking program, a quick system login password “hacking” tool.

<span style="color: inherit;">Hydra</span> can run through a list and “brute force” some authentication services. Imagine trying to manually guess someone’s password on a particular service (<span style="color: inherit;">SSH</span>, Web Application Form, <span style="color: inherit;">FTP</span> or SNMP) - we can use <span style="color: inherit;">Hydra</span> to run through a password list and speed this process up for us, determining the correct password.

According to its [official repository](https://github.com/vanhauser-thc/thc-hydra), <span style="color: inherit;">Hydra</span> supports, i.e., has the ability to brute force the following protocols:

“Asterisk, AFP, Cisco AAA, Cisco auth, Cisco enable, CVS, Firebird, <span style="color: inherit;">FTP</span>, <span style="color: inherit;">HTTP</span>\-FORM-GET, <span style="color: inherit;">HTTP</span>\-FORM-POST, <span style="color: inherit;">HTTP</span>\-GET, <span style="color: inherit;">HTTP</span>\-HEAD, <span style="color: inherit;">HTTP</span>\-POST, <span style="color: inherit;">HTTP</span>\-<span style="color: inherit;">PROXY</span>, HTTPS-FORM-GET, HTTPS-FORM-POST, HTTPS-GET, HTTPS-HEAD, HTTPS-POST, <span style="color: inherit;">HTTP</span>\-<span style="color: inherit;">Proxy</span>, ICQ, <span style="color: inherit;">IMAP</span>, <span style="color: inherit;">IRC</span>, LDAP, MEMCACHED, MONGODB, MS-<span style="color: inherit;">SQL</span>, MYSQL, NCP, NNTP, Oracle Listener, Oracle SID, Oracle, PC-Anywhere, PCNFS, <span style="color: inherit;">POP3</span>, POSTGRES, Radmin, <span style="color: inherit;">RDP</span>, Rexec, Rlogin, Rsh, RTSP, SAP/R3, SIP, <span style="color: inherit;">SMB</span>, <span style="color: inherit;">SMTP</span>, <span style="color: inherit;">SMTP</span> Enum, SNMP v1+v2+v3, SOCKS5, <span style="color: inherit;">SSH</span> (v1 and v2), SSHKEY, Subversion, TeamSpeak (TS2), Telnet, VMware-Auth, VNC and XMPP.”

For more information on the options of each protocol in <span style="color: inherit;">Hydra</span>, you can check the [Kali <span style="color: inherit;">Hydra</span> tool page](https://en.kali.tools/?p=220).

This shows the importance of using a strong password; if your password is common, doesn’t contain special characters and is not above eight characters, it will be prone to be guessed. A one-hundred-million-password list contains common passwords, so when an out-of-the-box application uses an easy password to log in, change it from the default! CCTV cameras and web frameworks often use `admin:password` as the default login credentials, which is obviously not strong enough.

## Installing <span style="color: inherit;">Hydra</span>

<span style="color: inherit;">Hydra</span> comes pre-installed with all Kali distributions.

However, you can check its official repositories if you prefer to use another <span style="color: inherit;">Linux</span> distribution. For instance, you can install <span style="color: inherit;">Hydra</span> on an Ubuntu or Fedora system by executing `apt install hydra` or `dnf install hydra`. Furthermore, you can download it from its official [THC-<span style="color: inherit;">Hydra</span> repository](https://github.com/vanhauser-thc/thc-hydra).