# Introduction

Consider the following scenario from everyday life. Let’s say you are meeting a business partner over coffee and discussing somewhat confidential business plans. Let’s break down the meeting from the security perspective.

- You can see and hear the other person. Consequently, it is easy to be sure of their identity. That’s **authentication**, i.e., you are confirming the identity of who you are talking with.
- You can also confirm that what you are “hearing” is coming from your business partner. You can tell what words and sentences are coming from your business partner and what is coming from others. That’s **authenticity**, i.e., you verify that the message genuinely comes from a specific sender. Moreover, you know that what they are saying is reaching you, and there is no chance of anything changing the other party’s words across the table. That’s **integrity**, i.e., ensuring that the data has not been altered or tampered with.
- Finally, you can pick a seat away from the other customers and keep your voice low so that only your business partner can hear you. That’s **confidentiality**, i.e., only the authorised parties can access the data.

Let’s quickly compare this with correspondence in the cyber realm. When someone sends you a text message, how can you be sure they are who they claim to be? How can you be sure that nothing changed the text as it travelled across various network links? When you are communicating with your business partner over an online messaging platform, you need to be sure of the following:

- **Authentication**: You want to be sure you communicate with the right person, not someone else pretending.
- **Authenticity**: You can verify that the information comes from the claimed source.
- **Integrity**: You must ensure that no one changes the data you exchange.
- **Confidentiality**: You want to prevent an unauthorised party from eavesdropping on your conversations.

Cryptography can provide solutions to satisfy the above requirements, among many others. Private key cryptography, i.e., symmetric encryption, mainly protects confidentiality. However, public key cryptography, i.e., asymmetric cryptography, plays a significant role in authentication, authenticity, and integrity.

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

# Conclusion

We have defined **cryptography** as the science of securing communication in the presence of adversaries. Another important science that studies how to break or bypass cryptographic systems is **cryptanalysis**. As for trying every possible password combination, we call that a **brute-force attack**. However, when we know that the password is most likely a dictionary word, it will make more sense to try words from a dictionary instead of every possible password combination; this is called a **dictionary attack**.

- **Cryptography** is the science of securing communication and data using codes and ciphers.
- **Cryptanalysis** is the study of methods to break or bypass cryptographic security systems without knowing the key.
- **Brute-Force Attack** is an attack method that involves trying every possible key or password to decrypt a message.
- **Dictionary Attack** is an attack method where the attacker tries dictionary words or combinations of them.

This room focused on public key cryptography, asymmetric cryptography, and key exchange. It gave you an essential understanding of RSA, Diffie-Hellman, <span style="color: inherit;">SSH</span> key pairs, digital signatures and certificates, and OpenPGP.