# Cracking SSH Key Passwords

Let’s explore one more use of John that comes up semi-frequently in CTF challenges—using John to crack the <span style="color: inherit;">SSH</span> private key password of `id_rsa` files. Unless configured otherwise, you authenticate your SSH login using a password. However, you can configure key-based authentication, which lets you use your private key, `id_rsa`, as an authentication key to log in to a remote machine over <span style="color: inherit;">SSH</span>. However, doing so will often require a password to access the private key; here, we will be using John to crack this password to allow authentication over <span style="color: inherit;">SSH</span> using the key.

&nbsp;

## ssh2john

As the name suggests, `ssh2john` converts the `id_rsa` private key, which is used to log in to the SSH session, into a hash format that John can work with. Jokes aside, it’s another beautiful example of John’s versatility. The syntax is about what you’d expect. Note that if you don’t have `ssh2john` installed, you can use `ssh2john.py`, located in the `/opt/john/ssh2john.py`. If you’re doing this on Kali, replace the `ssh2john` command with `python /usr/share/john/ssh2john.py`.

```code
ssh2john [id_rsa private key file] > [output file]
```

- `ssh2john`: Invokes the `ssh2john` tool
- `[id_rsa private key file]`: The path to the id_rsa file you wish to get the hash of
- `>`: This is the output director. We’re using it to redirect the output from this command to another file.
- `[output file]`: This is the file that will store the output from

### Example Usage

```code
/opt/john/ssh2john.py id_rsa > id_rsa_hash.txt
```

&nbsp;

## Cracking

We’re feeding the file we output from ssh2john, which in our example use case is called `id_rsa_hash.txt` and, as we did with `rar2john`, we can use this seamlessly with John:

```code
john --wordlist=/usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt id_rsa_hash.txt
```

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

# Exercises

Now, crack the hash of the `id_rsa` file relevant to this task! The file is located in `~/John-the-Ripper-The-Basics/Task11/`.

### Question 1

What is the SSH private key password?

answer: <span style="color: #0e0e0e;">mango</span>