# Setting Up John

The following modules will present hands-on practical examples of uses of John the Ripper with premade tasks, download the following .zip [file](../../_resources/John-the-Ripper-The-Basics-1728574618398.zip) to accompany the step by step explanations.

&nbsp;

## Installation

<span style="color: inherit;">John the Ripper</span> is supported on many Operating Systems, not just <span style="color: inherit;">Linux</span> Distributions.There are multiple versions of John, the standard “core” distribution, and multiple community editions, which extend the feature set of the original John distribution. The most popular of these distributions is the “**Jumbo John**”.

### Kali

Offensive <span style="color: inherit;">Linux</span> distributions like Kali are shipped with Jumbo John installed. You can double-check this by typing `john` into the terminal. You should be met with a usage guide for John, with the first line reading “<span style="color: inherit;">John the Ripper</span> 1.9.0-jumbo-1” or something similar with a different version number.

### Other <span style="color: inherit;">Linux</span> Distributions

Many <span style="color: inherit;">Linux</span> distributions have <span style="color: inherit;">John the Ripper</span> available for installation from their official repositories. For instance, on Fedora <span style="color: inherit;">Linux</span>, you can install <span style="color: inherit;">John the Ripper</span> with `sudo dnf install john`, while on Ubuntu, you can install it with `sudo apt install john`. Unfortunately, at the time of writing, these versions provided core functionality and missed some of the tools available through Jumbo John.

Consequently, you need to consider building from the source to access all the tools available via Jumbo John. The [official installation guide](https://github.com/openwall/john/blob/bleeding-jumbo/doc/INSTALL) provides detailed installation and build configuration instructions.

### Installing on Windows

To install Jumbo <span style="color: inherit;">John the Ripper</span> on Windows, you need to download and install the zipped binary for either 64-bit systems [here](https://www.openwall.com/john/k/john-1.9.0-jumbo-1-win64.zip) or for 32-bit systems [here](https://www.openwall.com/john/k/john-1.9.0-jumbo-1-win32.zip).

&nbsp;

## Wordlists

Now that we have `john` ready, we must consider another indispensable component: wordlists.

As we mentioned earlier, to use a dictionary attack against hashes, you need a list of words to hash and compare; unsurprisingly, this is called a wordlist. There are many different wordlists out there, and a good collection can be found in the [SecLists](https://github.com/danielmiessler/SecLists) repository. There are a few places you can look for wordlists for attacking the system of choice; we will quickly run through where you can find them.

On Kali <span style="color: inherit;">Linux</span> distributions, the `/usr/share/wordlists` directory contains a series of great wordlists.

### RockYou

`rockyou.txt` is a very large common password wordlist obtained from a data breach on a website called rockyou.com in 2009. You can get the `rockyou.txt` wordlist from the [SecLists](https://github.com/danielmiessler/SecLists) repository under the `/Passwords/Leaked-Databases` subsection. You may need to extract it from the `.tar.gz` format using `tar xvzf rockyou.txt.tar.gz`.