# Cracking Basic Hashes

There are multiple ways to use John the Ripper to crack simple hashes. We’ll walk through a few before moving on to cracking some ourselves.

&nbsp;

## John Basic Syntax

The basic syntax of <span style="color: inherit;">John the Ripper</span> commands is as follows. We will cover the specific options and modifiers used as we use them.

`john [options] [file path]`

- `john`: Invokes the <span style="color: inherit;">John the Ripper</span> program
- `[options]`: Specifies the options you want to use
- `[file path]`: The file containing the hash you’re trying to crack; if it’s in the same directory, you won’t need to name a path, just the file.

&nbsp;

## Automatic Cracking

John has built-in features to detect what type of hash it’s being given and to select appropriate rules and formats to crack it for you; this isn’t always the best idea as it can be unreliable, but if you can’t identify what hash type you’re working with and want to try cracking it, it can be a good option! To do this, we use the following syntax:

```code
john --wordlist=[path to wordlist] [path to file]
```

- `--wordlist=`: Specifies using wordlist mode, reading from the file that you supply in the provided path
- `[path to wordlist]`: The path to the wordlist you’re using, as described in the previous task

**Example Usage:**

```code
john --wordlist=/usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt hash_to_crack.txt
```

## Identifying Hashes

Sometimes, John won’t play nicely with automatically recognising and loading hashes, but that’s okay! We can use other tools to identify the hash and then set John to a specific format. There are multiple ways to do this, such as using an online hash identifier like [this site](https://hashes.com/en/tools/hash_identifier), or a tool called [hash-identifier](https://gitlab.com/kalilinux/packages/hash-identifier/-/tree/kali/master), a Python tool that is super easy to use and will tell you what different types of hashes the one you enter is likely to be, giving you more options if the first one fails.

To use hash-identifier, you can use `wget` or `curl` to download the Python file `hash-id.py` from its GitLab [page](https://gitlab.com/kalilinux/packages/hash-identifier/-/raw/kali/master/hash-id.py). Then, launch it with `python3 hash-id.py` and enter the hash you’re trying to identify. It will give you a list of the most probable formats. These two steps are shown in the terminal below.

```shell
bob@BoB$ wget https://gitlab.com/kalilinux/packages/hash-identifier/-/raw/kali/master/hash-id.py
$ python3 hash-id.py
   #########################################################################
   #     __  __                     __           ______    _____           #
   #    /\ \/\ \                   /\ \         /\__  _\  /\  _ `\         #
   #    \ \ \_\ \     __      ____ \ \ \___     \/_/\ \/  \ \ \/\ \        #
   #     \ \  _  \  /'__`\   / ,__\ \ \  _ `\      \ \ \   \ \ \ \ \       #
   #      \ \ \ \ \/\ \_\ \_/\__, `\ \ \ \ \ \      \_\ \__ \ \ \_\ \      #
   #       \ \_\ \_\ \___ \_\/\____/  \ \_\ \_\     /\_____\ \ \____/      #
   #        \/_/\/_/\/__/\/_/\/___/    \/_/\/_/     \/_____/  \/___/  v1.2 #
   #                                                             By Zion3R #
   #                                                    www.Blackploit.com #
   #                                                   Root@Blackploit.com #
   #########################################################################
--------------------------------------------------
 HASH: 2e728dd31fb5949bc39cac5a9f066498

Possible Hashs:
[+] MD5
[+] Domain Cached Credentials - MD4(MD4(($pass)).(strtolower($username)))
```

&nbsp;

## Format-Specific Cracking

Once you have identified the hash that you’re dealing with, you can tell John to use it while cracking the provided hash using the following syntax:

```code
john --format=[format] --wordlist=[path to wordlist] [path to file]
```

- `--format=`: This is the flag to tell John that you’re giving it a hash of a specific format and to use the following format to crack it
- `[format]`: The format that the hash is in

### Example Usage:

```code
john --format=raw-md5 --wordlist=/usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt hash_to_crack.txt
```

### A Note on Formats:

When you tell John to use formats, if you’re dealing with a standard hash type, e.g. <span style="color: inherit;">md5</span> as in the example above, you have to prefix it with `raw-` to tell John you’re just dealing with a standard hash type, though this doesn’t always apply. To check if you need to add the prefix or not, you can list all of John’s formats using `john --list=formats` and either check manually or grep for your hash type using something like `john --list=formats | grep -iF "md5"`.

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

# Exercises

Now that you know the syntax, modifiers, and methods for cracking basic hashes, try it yourself! The files are located in `~/John-the-Ripper-The-Basics/Task04/` on the provided task file.

### Question 1

What type of hash is hash1.txt? What is the cracked value of hash1.txt?

answer: <span style="color: #0e0e0e;">md5 biscuit</span>

&nbsp;

### Question 2

What type of hash is hash2.txt? What is the cracked value of hash2.txt?

&nbsp;answer:  <span style="color: #0e0e0e;">sha-1 kangeroo</span>

&nbsp;

### Question 3

What type of hash is hash3.txt? What is the cracked value of hash3.txt?

answer: <span style="color: #0e0e0e;">sha256 microphone</span>

&nbsp;

### Question 4

What type of hash is hash4.txt? What is the cracked value of hash4.txt?

answer: <span style="color: #0e0e0e;">whirlpool colossal</span>