# Cracking Windows Authentication Hashes

Authentication hashes are the hashed versions of passwords stored by operating systems; it is sometimes possible to crack them using our brute-force methods. To get your hands on these hashes, you must often already be a privileged user, so we will explain some of the hashes we plan on cracking as we attempt them.

&nbsp;

## NTHash/NTLM

NThash is the hash format modern Windows operating system machines use to store user and service passwords. It’s also commonly referred to as <span style="color: inherit;">NTLM</span>, which references the previous version of Windows format for hashing passwords known as LM, thus NT/LM.

A bit of history: the NT designation for Windows products originally meant New Technology. It was used starting with Windows NT to denote products not built from the MS-<span style="color: inherit;"><span style="color: inherit;">DOS</span></span> Operating System. Eventually, the “NT” line became the standard Operating System type to be released by Microsoft, and the name was dropped, but it still lives on in the names of some Microsoft technologies.

In Windows, SAM (Security Account Manager) is used to store user account information, including usernames and hashed passwords. You can acquire NTHash/<span style="color: inherit;">NTLM</span> hashes by dumping the SAM database on a Windows machine, using a tool like Mimikatz, or using the Active Directory database: `NTDS.dit`. You may not have to crack the hash to continue privilege escalation, as you can often conduct a “pass the hash” attack instead, but sometimes, hash cracking is a viable option if there is a weak password policy.

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

# Exercises

Now that you know the theory behind it, see if you can use the techniques we practiced in the last task and the knowledge of what type of hash this is to crack the `ntlm.txt` file! The file is located in `~/John-the-Ripper-The-Basics/Task05/`.

### Question 1

What do we need to set the `--format` flag to in order to crack this hash?

answer: <span style="color: #0e0e0e;">nt</span>

&nbsp;

### Question 2

What is the cracked value of this password?

answer: <span style="color: #0e0e0e;">mushroom</span>