# Password Cracking

We’ve already mentioned rainbow tables as a method to crack hashes that don’t use a salt, but what if there’s a salt involved?

You can’t “decrypt” password hashes. They’re not encrypted. You have to crack the hashes by hashing many different inputs (such as `rockyou.txt` as it covers many possible passwords), potentially adding the salt if there is one and comparing it to the target hash. Once it matches, you know what the password was. Tools like [Hashcat](https://hashcat.net/hashcat/) and [<span style="color: inherit;">John the Ripper</span>](https://www.openwall.com/john/) are commonly used for these purposes.

&nbsp;

## Cracking Passwords with GPUs

Modern GPUs (Graphics Processing Units) have thousands of cores. They are specialized in digital image processing and accelerating computer graphics. Although they can’t do the same sort of work that a <span style="color: inherit;">CPU</span> can, they are very good at some mathematical calculations involved in hash functions. You can use a graphics card to crack many hash types quickly. Some hashing algorithms, such as Bcrypt, are designed so that hashing on a GPU does not provide any speed improvement over using a <span style="color: inherit;">CPU</span>; this helps them resist cracking.

&nbsp;

## Cracking on VMs?

It’s worth mentioning that VMs (Virtual Machines) normally don’t have access to the host’s graphics card(s). Depending on the virtualization software you are using, you can set this up, but it is cumbersome. Furthermore, performance degradation occurs as you use the <span style="color: inherit;">CPU</span> from a virtualization <span style="color: inherit;">OS</span>, and when your purpose is to crack a hash, you need every extra <span style="color: inherit;">CPU</span> cycle.

If you want to run [Hashcat](https://hashcat.net/hashcat/), it’s best to run it on your host to make the most of your GPU, if available. You can get Hashcat working with OpenCL in a <span style="color: inherit;">VM</span>, but the speeds will likely be worse than cracking on your host.

[<span style="color: inherit;">John the Ripper</span>](https://www.openwall.com/john/) uses <span style="color: inherit;">CPU</span> by default and works in a <span style="color: inherit;">VM</span> out of the box, although you may get better speeds running it on the host <span style="color: inherit;">OS</span> to avoid any virtualization overhead and make the most of your <span style="color: inherit;">CPU</span> cores and threads.

&nbsp;

# Time to Crack Some Hashes

I’ll provide the hashes. Crack them. You can choose how. You’ll need to use online tools, [Hashcat](https://hashcat.net/hashcat/), or [<span style="color: inherit;">John the Ripper</span>](https://www.openwall.com/john/). Although you can use [online rainbow tables](https://hashes.com/) to solve the following, we strongly advise against doing that as this will restrict your learning experience. For the first three questions, using `hashcat` along with `rockyou.txt` is enough to find the answers.

Hashcat uses the following basic syntax: `hashcat -m <hash_type> -a <attack_mode> hashfile wordlist`, where:

- `-m <hash_type>` specifies the hash-type in numeric format. For example, `-m 1000` is for NTLM. Check the official documentation (`man hashcat`) and [example page](https://hashcat.net/wiki/doku.php?id=example_hashes) to find the hash type code to use.
- `-a <attack_mode>` specifies the attack-mode. For example, `-a 0` is for straight, i.e., trying one password from the wordlist after the other.
- `hashfile` is the file containing the hash you want to crack.
- `wordlist` is the security word list you want to use in your attack.

For example, `hashcat -m 3200 -a 0 hash.txt /usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt` will treat the hash as Bcrypt and try the passwords in the `rockyou.txt` file.

tip: save each hash inside a file for decoding.

&nbsp;

## Question 1

Use `hashcat` to crack the hash, `$2a$06$7yoU3Ng8dHTXphAg913cyO6Bjs3K5lBnwq5FJyA6d01pMSrddr1ZG`.

answer: <span style="color: #0e0e0e;">85208520</span>

&nbsp;

## Question 2

Use `hashcat` to crack the SHA2-256 hash, `9eb7ee7f551d2f0ac684981bd1f1e2fa4a37590199636753efe614d4db30e8e1`.

answer: <span style="color: #0e0e0e;">halloween</span>

&nbsp;

## Question 3

Use `hashcat` to crack the hash, `$6$GQXVvW4EuM$ehD6jWiMsfNorxy5SINsgdlxmAEl3.yif0/c3NqzGLa0P.S7KRDYjycw5bnYkF5ZtB8wQy8KnskuWQS3Yr1wQ0`.

answer: <span style="color: #0e0e0e;">spaceman</span>

&nbsp;

## Question 4

Crack the hash, `b6b0d451bbf6fed658659a9e7e5598fe`.

answer: <span style="color: #0e0e0e;">funforyou</span>