# Conclusion

**Hashing**, as already stated, is a process that takes input data and produces a hash value, a fixed-size string of characters, also referred to as digest. This hash value uniquely represents the data, and any change in the data, no matter how small, should lead to a change in the hash value. Hashing should not be confused with encryption or encoding; hashing is one-way, and you can’t reverse the process to get the original data.

**Encoding** converts data from one form to another to make it compatible with a specific system. ASCII, UTF-8, UTF-16, UTF-32, ISO-8859-1, and Windows-1252 are valid encoding methods for the English language. Note that UTF-8, UTF-16, and UTF-32 are Unicode encodings, and they can represent characters from other languages, such as Arabic and Japanese.

Another type of encoding commonly used when sending or saving data is not for any specific language. Examples include Base32 and Base64 encoding. Consider the following example of using `base64` to encode and decode.

```shell
bob@BoB# base64
bob
VHJ5SGFja01lCg==
bob@BoB# base64 -d
VHJ5SGFja01lCg==
bob
```

Encoding should not be confused with encryption, as using a specific encoding does not protect the confidentiality of the message. Encoding is reversible; anyone can change the data encoding with the right tools.

Only **encryption**, which we covered in the previous rooms, protects data confidentiality using a cryptographic cipher and a key. Encryption is reversible, provided we know the cipher and can access the key.

&nbsp;

# Questions

Save the encoded code to a file and use base64 command to solve it

## Question 1

Use `base64` to decode `RU5jb2RlREVjb2RlCg==`. What is the original word?

answer: <span style="color: #0e0e0e;">ENcodeDEcode</span>