# Introduction

Cryptography’s ultimate purpose is to ensure secure communication in the presence of adversaries. The term secure includes confidentiality and integrity of the communicated data. Cryptography can be defined as the practice and study of techniques for secure communication and data protection where we expect the presence of adversaries and third parties. In other words, these adversaries should not be able to disclose or alter the contents of the messages.

Cryptography is used to protect confidentiality, integrity, and authenticity. In this age, you use cryptography daily, and you’re almost certainly reading this over an encrypted connection. Consider the following scenarios where you would use cryptography:

- When logging in to a website, credentials are encrypted and sent to the server so that no one can retrieve them by snooping on the connection.
- When connecting over <span style="color: inherit;">SSH</span>, the <span style="color: inherit;">SSH</span> client and the server establish an encrypted tunnel so no one can eavesdrop on the session.
- When conducting online banking, the browser checks the remote server’s certificate to confirm that it is communicating with the bank’s server and not an attacker’s.
- When downloading a file, how to check if it was downloaded correctly? Cryptography provides a solution through hash functions to confirm that the file is identical to the original one.

People rarely have to interact directly with cryptography, but its solutions and implications are everywhere in the digital world. Consider the case where a company wants to handle credit card information and process related transactions. When handling credit cards, the company must follow and enforce the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS). In this case, the PCI DSS ensures a minimum level of security to store, process, and transmit data related to card credits. If you check the PCI DSS for Large Organizations, you will learn that the data should be encrypted both while being stored (at rest) and while being transmitted (in motion).

In the same way that handling payment card details requires complying with PCI DSS, handling medical records requires complying with their respective standards. Unlike credit cards, the standards for handling medical records vary from one country to another. Example laws and regulations that should be considered when handling medical records include HIPAA (Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act) and HITECH (Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health) in the USA, GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation) in the EU, DPA (Data Protection Act) in the UK. Although the list is not exhaustive, it gives an idea about the legal requirements that healthcare providers should consider depending on their country. These laws and regulations show that cryptography is a necessity that should be present yet usually hidden from direct user access.