# Basic Math

The building blocks of modern cryptography lie in mathematics. To demonstrate some basic algorithms, we will cover two mathematical operations that are used in various algorithms:

- <span style="color: inherit;">XOR</span> Operation
- Modulo Operation

&nbsp;

## <span style="color: inherit;">XOR</span> Operation

<span style="color: inherit;">XOR</span>, short for “exclusive OR”, is a logical operation in binary arithmetic that plays a crucial role in various computing and cryptographic applications. In binary, <span style="color: inherit;">XOR</span> compares two bits and returns 1 if the bits are different and 0 if they are the same, as shown in the truth table below. This operation is often represented by the symbol ⊕ or ^.

| A   | B   | A ⊕ B |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 0   | 0   | 0   |
| 0   | 1   | 1   |
| 1   | 0   | 1   |
| 1   | 1   | 0   |

If this is the first time you work with a truth table, it is a table that shows all possible outcomes. The <span style="color: inherit;">XOR</span> truth table above states all four cases: 0 ⊕ 0 = 0, 0 ⊕ 1 = 1, 1 ⊕ 0 = 1, and 1 ⊕ 1 = 0.

Let’s consider an example where we want to apply <span style="color: inherit;">XOR</span> to the binary numbers 1010 and 1100. In this case, we perform the operation bit by bit: 1 ⊕ 1 = 0, 0 ⊕ 1 = 1, 1 ⊕ 0 = 1, and 0 ⊕ 0 = 0, resulting in 0110.

You may be wondering how <span style="color: inherit;">XOR</span> can play any role in cryptography. <span style="color: inherit;">XOR</span> has several interesting properties that make it useful in cryptography and error detection. One key property is that applying <span style="color: inherit;">XOR</span> to a value with itself results in 0, and applying <span style="color: inherit;">XOR</span> to any value with 0 leaves it unchanged. This means A ⊕ A = 0, and A ⊕ 0 = A for any binary value A. Additionally, <span style="color: inherit;">XOR</span> is commutative, i.e., A ⊕ B = B ⊕ A. And it is associative, i.e., (A ⊕ B) ⊕ C = A ⊕ (B ⊕ C).

Let’s see how we can make use of the above in cryptography. We will demonstrate how <span style="color: inherit;">XOR</span> can be used as a basic symmetric encryption algorithm. Consider the binary values P and K, where P is the plaintext, and K is the secret key. The ciphertext is C = P ⊕ K.

Now, if we know C and K, we can recover P. We start with C ⊕ K = (P ⊕ K) ⊕ K. But we know that (P ⊕ K) ⊕ K = P ⊕ (K ⊕ K) because <span style="color: inherit;">XOR</span> is associative. Furthermore, we know that K ⊕ K = 0; consequently, (P ⊕ K) ⊕ K = P ⊕ (K ⊕ K) = P ⊕ 0 = P. In other words, <span style="color: inherit;">XOR</span> served as a simple symmetric encryption algorithm. In practice, it is more complicated as we need a secret key as long as the plaintext.

&nbsp;

## Modulo Operation

Another mathematical operation we often encounter in cryptography is the modulo operator, commonly written as % or as *m**o**d*. The modulo operator, *X*%*Y*, is the **remainder** when X is divided by Y. In our daily life calculations, we focus more on the result of division than on the remainder. The remainder plays a significant role in cryptography.

You need to work with large numbers when solving some cryptography exercises. If your calculator fails, we suggest using a programming language such as Python. Python has a built-in `int` type that can handle integers of arbitrary size and would automatically switch to larger types as needed. Many other programming languages have dedicated libraries for big integers. If you prefer to do your math online, consider [WolframAlpha](https://www.wolframalpha.com/).

Let’s consider a few examples.

- 25%5 = 0 because 25 divided by 5 is 5, with a remainder of 0, i.e., 25 = 5 × 5 + 0
- 23%6 = 5 because 23 divided by 6 is 3, with a remainder of 5, i.e., 23 = 3 × 6 + 5
- 23%7 = 2 because 23 divided by 7 is 3 with a remainder of 2, i.e., 23 = 3 × 7 + 2

An important thing to remember about modulo is that it’s not reversible. If we are given the equation *x*%5 = 4, infinite values of *x* would satisfy this equation.

The modulo operation always returns a non-negative result less than the divisor. This means that for any integer *a* and positive integer *n*, the result of *a*%*n* will always be in the range 0 to *n* − 1.