# Linux iptables Firewall

<span style="color: inherit;">Linux</span> also offers the functionality of a built-in <span style="color: inherit;">firewall</span>. We have multiple <span style="color: inherit;">firewall</span> options available here. Let’s briefly review most of them and explore one of them in detail.

## Netfilter

Netfilter is the framework inside the <span style="color: inherit;">Linux</span> <span style="color: inherit;">OS</span> with core <span style="color: inherit;">firewall</span> functionalities, including packet filtering, NAT, and connection tracking. This framework serves as the foundation for various <span style="color: inherit;">firewall</span> utilities available in <span style="color: inherit;">Linux</span> to control network traffic. Some common <span style="color: inherit;">firewall</span> utilities that utilize this framework are listed below:

- **iptables:** This is the most widely used utility in many <span style="color: inherit;">Linux</span> distributions. It uses the Netfilter framework that provides various functionalities to control network traffic.
- **nftables:** It is a successor to the “iptables” utility, with enhanced packet filtering and NAT capabilities. It is also based on the Netfilter framework.
- **firewalld:** This utility also operates on the Netfilter framework and has predefined rule sets. It works differently from the others and comes with different pre-built network zone configurations.

## ufw

ufw (Uncomplicated <span style="color: inherit;">Firewall</span>), as the name says, eliminates the complications of making rules in a complex syntax in “iptables”(or its successor) by giving you an easier interface. It is more beginner-friendly. Basically, whatever rules you need in “iptables”, you can define them with some easy commands via ufw, which would then be configuring your desired rules in “iptables”. Let’s have a look at some basic ufw commands down below.

To check the status of the <span style="color: inherit;">firewall</span>, you could use the command below:

```shell
bob@BoB~$ sudo ufw status
Status: inactive
```

If it appears inactive, you can enable it using the following command:

```shell
bob@BoB~$ sudo ufw enable
Firewall is active and enabled on system startup
```

To turn off the <span style="color: inherit;">firewall</span>, type “disable” instead of “enable” in the above command.

Below is a rule created to allow all the outgoing connections from a <span style="color: inherit;">Linux</span> machine. The `default` in the command means that we are defining this policy as a default policy allowing all the outgoing traffic unless we define an outgoing traffic restriction on any specific application in a separate rule. You can also make a rule to allow/deny traffic coming into your machine by replacing `outgoing` with `incoming` in the following command:

```shell
bob@BoB~$ sudo ufw default allow outgoing
Default outgoing policy changed to 'allow'
(be sure to update your rules accordingly)
```

You can deny incoming traffic at any port in your system. Let's say that we want to block incoming <span style="color: inherit;">SSH</span> traffic. We can achieve this with the command `ufw deny 22/tcp`. As you can see, we first specified the action, `deny` in this case; furthermore, we specified the port and the transport protocol, which is TCP port 22, or simply `22/tcp`.

```shell
bob@BoB~$ sudo ufw deny 22/tcp
Rule added
Rule added (v6)
```

To list down all the active rules in a numbered order, you can use the following command:

```shell
bob@BoB~$ sudo ufw status numbered
     To                         Action      From
     --                         ------      ----
[ 1] 22/tcp                     DENY IN     Anywhere                  
[ 2] 22/tcp (v6)                DENY IN     Anywhere (v6)   
```

To delete any rule, execute the following command with the rule number to delete:

```shell
bob@BoB~$ sudo ufw delete 2
Deleting:
 deny 22/tcp
Proceed with operation (y|n)? y
Rule deleted (v6)
```

These different utilities can be used to manage Netfilter. Choosing the right utility for the <span style="color: inherit;">Linux</span> <span style="color: inherit;">OS</span> depends on multiple factors, such as familiarity with the <span style="color: inherit;">OS</span> and your requirements. You can test your knowledge of <span style="color: inherit;">Linux</span> firewalls by creating some rules defined in this task and testing them to ensure they are working as expected.