# Best Practices

This module outlines the best practices for evaluating a website or writing code for a website. If you are developing a web application, you will likely end up using JS on your website. The practices below will assist you in reducing the attack surface and minimizing the chances of attack.

&nbsp;

## Avoid Relying on Client-Side Validation Only

One of JS's primary functions is performing client-side validation. Developers sometimes use it for validating forms and rely entirely on it, which is not a good practice. Since a user can **disable/manipulate** JS on the client side, performing validation on the server side is also essential.

&nbsp;

## Refrain from Adding Untrusted Libraries

As discussed in earlier tasks, JS allows you to include any other JS scripts using the `src` attribute inside a `script` tag. But have you considered whether the library we include is from a trusted source? Bad actors have uploaded a bundle of libraries on the internet with names that resemble legitimate ones. So, if you blindly include a malicious library, you will expose your web application to threats.

&nbsp;

## Avoid Hardcoded Secrets

Never hardcode sensitive data like **<span style="color: inherit;">API</span> keys**, **access tokens**, or **credentials** into your JS code, as the user can easily check the source code and get the password.

```javascript
// Bad Practice
const privateAPIKey = 'pk_TryHackMe-1337'; 
```

&nbsp;

## Minify and Obfuscate Your JavaScript Code

Minifying and obfuscating JS code reduces its size, improves load time, and makes it harder for attackers to understand the logic of the code. Therefore, always **minify** and **obfuscate** the code when using code in production. The attacker can eventually reverse engineer it, but getting the original code will take at least some effort.