# <span style="color: #f9f9fb;">Technology</span>

Having the right **People** and **Processes** in place would never be enough without security solutions for detection and response. The **Technology** portion in the <span style="color: inherit;">SOC</span> pillars refers to the security solutions. These security solutions efficiently minimize the <span style="color: inherit;">SOC</span> team's manual effort to detect and respond to threats.

An organization’s network consists of many devices and applications. As a security team, individually detecting and responding to threats in each device or application would require significant effort and resources. Security solutions centralize all the information of the devices or applications present in the network and automate the detection and response capabilities.

Let's get a brief understanding of some of these security solutions:

- **<span style="color: inherit;">SIEM</span>:** Security Information and Event Management (<span style="color: inherit;">SIEM</span>) is a popular tool used in almost every <span style="color: inherit;">SOC</span> environment. This tool collects logs from various network devices, referred to as log sources. Detection rules are configured in the <span style="color: inherit;">SIEM</span> solution, which contains logic to identify suspicious activity. The <span style="color: inherit;">SIEM</span> solution provides us with the detections after correlating them with multiple log sources and alerts us in case of a match with any of the rules. Modern <span style="color: inherit;">SIEM</span> solutions surpass this rule based detection analysis, providing us with user behavior analytics and threat intelligence capability. Machine learning algorithms support this to enhance the detection capabilities.

**Note:** The <span style="color: inherit;">SIEM</span> solution only provides the **Detection** capabilities in a <span style="color: inherit;">SOC</span> environment.

- **<span style="color: inherit;">EDR</span>:** Endpoint Detection and Response (<span style="color: inherit;">EDR</span>) provides the <span style="color: inherit;">SOC</span> team with detailed real-time and historical visibility of the devices’ activities. It operates on the endpoint level and can carry out automated responses. <span style="color: inherit;">EDR</span> has extensive detection capabilities for endpoints, allowing you to investigate them in detail and respond with a few clicks.
- **<span style="color: inherit;">Firewall</span>:** A <span style="color: inherit;">firewall</span> functions purely for network security and acts as a barrier between your internal and external networks (such as the Internet). It monitors incoming and outgoing network traffic and filters any unauthorized traffic. The <span style="color: inherit;">firewall</span> also has some detection rules deployed, which help us identify and block suspicious traffic before it reaches the internal network.

Several other security solutions play unique roles in a <span style="color: inherit;">SOC</span> environment, such as Antivirus, <span style="color: inherit;">EPP</span>, <span style="color: inherit;">IDS</span>/<span style="color: inherit;">IPS</span>, XDR, <span style="color: inherit;">SOAR</span>, and more. The decision on what Technology to deploy in the <span style="color: inherit;">SOC</span> comes after careful consideration of the threat surface and the available resources in the organization.