# Database Statements

## create database

If a new database is needed, the first step you would take is to create it. This can be done in <span style="color: inherit;">SQL</span> using the `CREATE DATABASE` statement. This would be done using the following syntax:

```shell-session
mysql> CREATE DATABASE database_name;
```

Run the following command to create a database named `thm_bookmarket_db`:

```shell-session
mysql> CREATE DATABASE thm_bookmarket_db;
```

## show databases

Now that we have created a database, we can view it using the `SHOW DATABASES` statement. The `SHOW DATABASES` statement will return a list of present databases. Run the statement as follows:

```shell-session
mysql> SHOW DATABASES;
```

In the returned list, you should see the database you have just created and some databases that are included by default (mysql, information_scheme, performance_scheme and sys), which are used for various purposes that enable mysql to function. Also present are various tables needed for this lesson.

## use database

Once a database is created, you may want to interact with it. Before we can interact with it, we need to tell mysql which database we would like to interact with (so it knows which database to run subsequent queries against). To set the database we have just created as the active database, we would run the `USE` statement as follows (make sure to run this on your machine):

```shell-session
mysql> USE thm_bookmarket_db;
```

## drop database

Once a database is no longer needed (maybe it was created for test purposes, or is no longer required), it can be removed using the `DROP` statement. To remove a database, we would use the following statement syntax (although, in our case, we want to keep our database, so no need to run this one yourself!):

```shell-session
mysql> DROP database database_name;
```

&nbsp;

# Table Statements

Now that you can create, list, use, and remove databases, it's time to examine how we would populate those databases with tables and interact with those tables.

## create table

Following the logic of the database statements, creating tables also uses a `CREATE` statement. Once a database is active (you have run the `USE` statement on it), a table can be created within it using the following statement syntax:

```shell-session
mysql> CREATE TABLE example_table_name (
    example_column1 data_type,
    example_column2 data_type,
    example_column3 data_type
);
```

As you can see, there is a little more involved here. In the Databases 101 task, we covered how and when a table is created; it must be decided what columns will make up a record in that table, as well as what data type is expected to be contained within that column. That is what is represented by this syntax here. In the example, there are 3 example columns, but <span style="color: inherit;">SQL</span> supports many (over 1000). Let's try populating our `thm_bookmarket_db` with a table using the following statement:

```shell-session
mysql> CREATE TABLE book_inventory (
    book_id INT AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
    book_name VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
    publication_date DATE
);
```

This statement will create a table `book_inventory` with three columns: `book_id`, `book_name` and `publication_date`. `book_id` is an `INT` (Integer) as it should only ever be a number, `AUTO_INCREMENT` is present, meaning the first book inserted would be assigned book_id 1, the second book inserted would be assigned a book_id of 2, and so on. Finally, `book_id` is set as the `PRIMARY KEY` as it will be the way we uniquely identify a book record in our table (and a primary must be present in a table).Book_name has the data type `VARCHAR(255)`, meaning it can variable characters (text/numbers/punctuation) and a limit of 255 characters is set and `NOT NULL`, meaning it cannot be empty (so if someone tried to insert a record into this table but the book_name was empty it would be rejected. Publication_date is set as the data type `DATE`.

## show tables

Just as we can list databases using a SHOW statement, we can also list the tables in our currently active database (the database on which we last used the USE statement). Run the following command, and you should see the table you have just created:

```shell-session
mysql> SHOW TABLES;
```

## describe

If we want to know what columns are contained within a table (and their data type), we can describe them using the `DESCRIBE` command (which can also be abbreviated to `DESC`). Describe the table you have just created using the following command:

```shell-session
mysql> DESCRIBE book_inventory;
```

This will give you a detailed view of the table like so:

```shell-session
mysql> DESCRIBE book_inventory;
+------------------+--------------+------+-----+---------+----------------+
| Field            | Type         | Null | Key | Default | Extra          |
+------------------+--------------+------+-----+---------+----------------+
| book_id          | int          | NO   | PRI | NULL    | auto_increment |
| book_name        | varchar(255) | NO   |     | NULL    |                |
| publication_date | date         | YES  |     | NULL    |                |
+------------------+--------------+------+-----+---------+----------------+
3 rows in set (0.02 sec)
```

## alter

Once you have created a table, there may come a time when your need for the dataset changes, and you need to alter the table. This can be done using the `ALTER` statement. Let’s now imagine that we have decided that we actually want to have a column in our book inventory that has the page count for each book. Add this to our table using the following statement:

```shell-session
mysql> ALTER TABLE book_inventory
ADD page_count INT;
```

The `ALTER` statement can be used to make changes to a table, such as renaming columns, changing the data type in a column or removing a column.

## drop

Similar to removing a database, you can also remove tables using the `DROP` statement. We don’t need to do this, but the syntax you would use for this is:

```shell-session
mysql> DROP TABLE table_name;
```