# CRUD Operations

**CRUD** stands for **C**reate, **R**ead, **U**pdate, and **D**elete, which are considered the basic operations in any system that manages data.

Let's explore all these different operations when working with **MySQL**. In the next two tasks, we will be using the **books** table that is part of the database **thm_books**. We can access it with the statement `use thm_books;`.

## Create Operation (INSERT)

The **Create** operation will create new records in a table. In MySQL, this can be achieved by using the statement `INSERT INTO`, as shown below.

```shell-session
mysql> INSERT INTO books (id, name, published_date, description)
    VALUES (1, "Android Security Internals", "2014-10-14", "An In-Depth Guide to Android's Security Architecture");

Query OK, 1 row affected (0.01 sec)
```

As we can observe, the `INSERT INTO` statement specifies a table, in this case, **books**, where you can add a new record; the columns **id**, **name**, **published_date**, and **description** are the records in the table. In this example, a new record with an **id** of **1**, a **name** of **"Android Security Internals**", a **published_date** of "**2014-10-14**", and a **description** stating "**Android Security Internals provides a complete understanding of the security internals of Android devices**" was added.

**Note:** This operation already exists in the database so there is no need to run the query.

## Read Operation (SELECT)

The **Read** operation, as the name suggests, is used to read or retrieve information from a table. We can fetch a column or all columns from a table with the `SELECT` statement, as shown in the next example.

```shell-session
mysql> SELECT * FROM books;
+----+----------------------------+----------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| id | name                       | published_date | description                                          |
+----+----------------------------+----------------+------------------------------------------------------+
|  1 | Android Security Internals | 2014-10-14     | An In-Depth Guide to Android's Security Architecture |
+----+----------------------------+----------------+------------------------------------------------------+

1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

The above output `SELECT` statement is followed by an `*` symbol indicating that all columns should be retrieved, followed by the `FROM` clause and the table name, in this case, **books**.

If we want to select a specific column like the **name** and **description**, we should specify them instead of the `*` symbol, as shown below.

```shell-session
mysql> SELECT name, description FROM books;
+----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| name                       | description                                          |
+----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| Android Security Internals | An In-Depth Guide to Android's Security Architecture |
+----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------+

1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

## Update Operation (UPDATE)

The **Update** operation modifies an existing record within a table, and the same statement, `UPDATE`, can be used for this.

```shell-session
mysql> UPDATE books
    SET description = "An In-Depth Guide to Android's Security Architecture."
    WHERE id = 1;

Query OK, 1 row affected (0.00 sec)
Rows matched: 1  Changed: 1  Warnings: 0
```

The `UPDATE` statement specifies the table, in this case, **books**, and then we can use `SET` followed by the column name we will update. The `WHERE` clause specifies which row to update when the clause is met, in this case, the one with **id 1**.

## Delete Operation (DELETE)

The **delete** operation removes records from a table. We can achieve this with the `DELETE` statement.

**Note:** There is no need to run the query. Deleting this entry will affect the <span style="color: inherit;">rest</span> of the examples in the upcoming tasks.

```shell-session
mysql> DELETE FROM books WHERE id = 1;

Query OK, 1 row affected (0.00 sec)
```

Above, we can observe the `DELETE` statement followed by the `FROM` clause, which allows us to specify the table where the record will be removed, in this case, **books**, followed by the `WHERE` clause that indicates that it should be the one where the **id** is **1**.

## Summary

In summary, **CRUD** operations results are fundamental for data operations and when interacting with databases. The statements associated with them are listed below.

- **Create (INSERT statement)** - Adds a new record to the table.
- **Read (SELECT statement)** - Retrieves record from the table.
- **Update (UPDATE statement)** - Modifies existing data in the table.
- **Delete (DELETE statement)** - Removes record from the table.

These operations enable us to effectively manage and manipulate data within a database.