# NAMP

Imagine the scenario where you are connected to a network and using various network resources, such as email and web browsing. Two questions arise. The first is how we can discover other live devices on this network or on other networks. The second is how we can find out the network services running on these live devices; examples include <span style="color: inherit;">SSH</span> and web servers.

One approach is to do it manually. If asked to uncover which devices are live on the `192.168.0.1/24` network, one can use basic tools such as `ping`, `arp-scan`, or some other tool to check the 254 IP addresses. Although this network has 256 IP addresses, we counted 254 IP addresses because two are reserved. Each tool has its limitations. For example, `ping` won’t give any information if the target system’s firewall blocks ICMP traffic. Moreover, `arp-scan` only works if your device is connected to the same network, i.e., over Ethernet or WiFi. In brief, this will be a significant waste of time without an advanced and reliable tool. With the right tools and enough time, one would have a list of the live hosts on a target network. We need a flexible tool that can handle the various scenarios.

Discovering the running services on a specific host is equally time-consuming if one relies on manual solutions or inefficient scripts. For instance, one can use `telnet` to try one port after the other; however, with thousands of ports to scan, this can be a very time-consuming task, even if a script was created to automate the `telnet` connection attempts.

A very efficient solution that can solve the above two requirements and many more is the [<span style="color: inherit;">Nmap</span>](https://nmap.org/) network scanner. <span style="color: inherit;">Nmap</span> is an open-source network scanner that was first published in 1997. Since then, plenty of features and options have been added. It is a powerful and flexible network scanner that can be adapted to various scenarios and setups.